---
layout: post
title: "Today's note - 30th July, 2024"
date: 2024-07-30 17:00:00 +0530
categories:
  - Daily
tags:
  - software
---

After switching to static page, I had to change the way I write. Instead of a WYSIWYG editor, I had to switch a normal text editor so that I could use markdown format. I knew there were plugin's available for notepad++, but it was not really that hard to learn to use markdown. But today I came across [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/). 

Not only does this use markdown, it also allows you to link to your other notes, making it a good replacement for OneNote and probably Google Sheets as well. I don't think I will stop using either of them, but the idea of using markdown is tempting. 

One reason is efficiency. This is probably the reason people are so passionate about vim and vi. The basic features are there and while this might not have rich text format that you get from the other note taking apps, sometimes simple is better.

	Another reason is future proofing. These are just plain notes and I don't have to edit these if tomorrow I start using another note taking app. One thing the years of computer use has taught me is that you will have to keep changing the softwares you use at some point. I start with Netscape navigator, then Internet Explorer, Firefox, Google Chrome and used a few others in between. This blog has been been on so many [different platforms](https://suniljoseph.net/posts/switched-to-netlify/) and sometimes switching platform can be a lot of work. So be prepared for change and using this could make such future changes so much easier.

